# Name  
Arthur Walker Jr.  
  
# Textbook  
Knight, Physics for Scientists and Engineers: A Strategic Approach with Modern Physics, 3rd Edition, Chapter 19
Knight, Physics for Scientists and Engineers: A Strategic Approach with Modern Physics, 3rd Edition, Chapter 24
  
# Description  
Arthur Bertram Cuthbert Walker Jr. (1936-2001) was a solar physicist and a
pioneer of EUV/XUV. He was born in Cleveland, Ohio. Dr. Walker Jr. completed
his undergraduate studies at Case Institute of technology in Cleveland in 1957
and earned his bachelor’s degree in physics. He completed both his master’s
and doctorate degrees in astrophysics in the University of Illinois, in 1958
and 1962 respectively. He is most noted for having developed the solar corona.
Two of his sounding rocket payloads, the Stanford/MSFC Rocket
Spectroheliograph Experiment and the Multi-Spectral Solar Telescope Array,
recorded the first full-disk, high-resolution images of the Sun in XUV with
conventional geometries of normal incidence optics; this technology is now
used in solar telescopes such as SOHO/EIT and TRACE, and in the fabrication of
microchips via ultraviolet photolithography. Dr. Walker's scientific research
focused on radiation from the Sun called extreme ultraviolet light and soft
X-rays, which affect the chemistry of Earth's upper atmosphere, including the
ozone layer. In the late 1970's, Dr. Walker became interested in what was then
considered a risky and untested concept, called multilayer technology, for
making special telescope mirrors that could reflect that radiation. He was a
professor at Stanford University from 1974 until his death in 2001 and was a
member of the Stanford’s Center for Space and Astrophysics at the school. In
addition to his impressive contributions to the field, Dr. Walker Jr. spent a
lifetime helping women and minority students find careers in science. He is
credited with helping Stanford produce more black physicists with Ph.D.’s than
any other university in the nation.  
  
# Sources  
Arthur Bertram Cuthbert Walker, Jr. (n.d.). Retrieved February 18, 2018, from
http://www.math.buffalo.edu/mad/physics/walker_arthurbc.html Arthur Bertram
Cuthbert Walker, Jr. (n.d.). Retrieved February 18, 2018, from
http://www.math.buffalo.edu/mad/physics/walker_arthurbc.html  
  
# Photo  
http://www.math.buffalo.edu/mad/PIX/Walker.abc_old.jpg  

